Dear All,
In the last few days, there were some interesting posts on using
auxiliary methods to Gibbs sample the hyper-parameters of the
Dirichlet distribution in LDA and related models.
These posts and the references therein seemed mostly to deal with the
case of Dirichlet-Multinomial compound (aka multivariate Polya), which
involves ratios of Gamma functions. Gibbs sampling the Dirichlet
parameters in this case is very useful. However, I was also curious
about Gibbs sampling in the simpler case of a standard Dirichlet
distribution*. While the Dirichlet-Multinomial compound case is
probably more interesting and important, especially in collapsed
samplers, I can still think of cases where the simpler case might be
important. Minka discusses MLE estimation for this problem. I am more
interested in Bayesian inference. I already managed to hack together a
ARS based sampler for this problem. However, it was less than ideal
(in terms of implementation and performance) and so I was wondering
about auxiliary based methods, or anything else that works well.
many thanks,
Mark
* In case it is not clear what I am referring to, imagine we have a
set of k-dimensional discrete/categorical probability arrays pi_1,
pi_2 ... pi_n drawn from Dir(alpha), where alpha is unknown. Assuming
some suitable prior on alpha, is there an auxiliary method to Gibbs
sample from the posterior of alpha given pi_1, pi_2 ... pi_n.
