Hi Charlie,
To perform Gibbs sampling, you need to write down a list of all the
hidden variables in your model and, for each variable, write down the
conditional distribution of that variable given settings of all other
variables. Sampling then involves visiting each variable in turn and
drawing a new value for that variable from its conditional
distribution.
In models that use only conjugate priors, these conditional
distributions can be very simple. Standard LDA draws topic proportions
for a document from a Dirichlet and then draws topic indicators from
those multinomial proportions. Updates are simple. CTM draws log topic
proportions from a normal and then draws topic indicators from the
exponentiated values of those log proportions. The conditional
distribution for those log topic proportions is then proportional to a
normal (from the prior) multiplied by e^x/(e^x + ...), which is not a
well-behaved distribution.
You theoretically could Gibbs sample the CTM model, but evaluating
those conditional distributions for the log topic proportions would be
difficult. An alternative method (described in this paper:
http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~mimno/papers/sampledlgstnorm.pdf) is to
introduce additional auxiliary variables, which have simple
conditional distributions themselves and make the conditional
distributions for the log topic proportions much simpler.
-David
