In reply to your last comment, if I may add something, I am currently
working on the relation between a topic (in a topic model environment) and
an hypothetical underlying human concept, in various situations. What I
wanted to say in my first reply is that it will be very difficult to
correlate every topics with every concept (here, musical genre). You will
have some "perfect" topics (only 1 musical genre for, say, the first ten
artists in the topic), and some topics with mixed artists from various
genres. As Harry said, in this case, he favors the idea of topics being
composed of "close" artists. If you find, in some topics, artists from both
Hip-Hop & RnB, I believe it is a good result in itself.
Introducing correlation between topics means that we rather like to identify
topics as concepts (here, musical concepts, not necessarily genres, such as
electronic music, or oldies), and to find the underlying relations that
exist in our mind between those. My point of view is that it is a difficult
task, even if we shift our concept from genre to a broader musical concept.
I've observed that identifying each topic with a unit of sense is a rare
event (and it depends on the number of topics you choose, which could be, in
this case, tricky). This is why I think that staying with mixed topics,
which don't correspond to our acception of genre, doesn't seem to be a
suboptimal solution, if the point is to provide recommendations.
Xavier
